<h1 align="center">
<strong><u>Flashcards Application</u></strong>
</h1>


<p align="center">
This Flashcards application was created with the vision of giving people a tool to memorize based on our old and amazing technique of using Flashcards. The pro being the user can make multiple Decks!
</p>

## What's included

Within the application folder you'll find the following directories and files. You'll see something like this:

```text
Final Project Files/
├── main.py
│
├── flashkard/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── models.py
│   ├── views.py
│   ├── api.py
│   ├── requirements.txt
│   ├── myData.db
│   ├── static/
│   │	└── static/
│   │       ├── dashboard.css
│   │	    ├── landing.css
│   │	    ├── login.css
│   │	    ├── review.css
│   │	    └── style.css
│   └── templates/
│       ├── dashboard.html
│   	├── dashboard_mentee.html
│   	├── landing.html
│   	├── login.html
│   	├── review.html
│	└── register.html
│
└── README.md  
```

## How To Run "Mentorship-Platform":
We can run Run "Mentorship-Platform" using localhost.  Below is the general command to run the application:

	http://127.0.0.1:5000/

The "Mentorship-Platform" is also live and hosted on Replit:

	https://mentorship.paramchordiya.repl.co/

## Database contents
Below are the contents of the application database model code-

- [Model Libraries](#model-libraries)
- [Tables](#tables)

#### Model Libraries

1. <u>**Flask SqlAlchemy:**</u>
    Flask-SQLAlchemy is an extension for Flask that aims to simplify using SQLAlchemy with Flask by providing defaults and helpers to accomplish common tasks. One of the most sought after helpers being the handling of a database connection across the app. In Mentorship platform application, We used flask-sqlalchemy to create database schema and tables.

2. <u>**Flask Security**</u>
    Flask-Security is an extension for Flask that allows you to quickly add common security mechanisms to your Flask application. They include: Session based authentication. Role management. Password hashing. In Mentorship-platform application we have used UserMixin class. Its the reason you can call for example is_authenticated to check if login credentials provide is correct or not instead of having to write a method to do that yourself


#### Tables

1. **<u>User:</u>**
    User table created in sqlite database by using Flask-sqlalchemy. It stores user data in rows i.e., **id, fname, lname, email, username, password, subjects, role and linkedIn.** Here, all except id are taken from user during sign up. User id is an autogenerated primary key of the User table and is unique to every user, fname is firstname of the user, lname is lastname of the user, email is also uniwue for every user, username is also unique to every user it is used for login everytime by the user and subjects, role and linkedIn stores some relative user information.

## Application contents
Below are the route and fuctions of the main application code-

- [Application Libraries](#application-libraries)
- [Landing](#index)
- [Sign Up](#sign-up)
- [Login](#login)
- [Mentor Dashboard](#Mentor-Dashboard)
- [Mentee Dashboard](#Mentee-Dashboard)


#### Application Libraries

1. **<u>Flask:</u>**
    Flask is used for developing web applications using python, implemented on Jinja2. We used diffrent flask decorators and functions in the application for better handling here we used  **route,before_first_request decorator, redirect and render_template functions, Flask class and request, session, flash as others objects.**
    Here, *route* is used to to bind a function with a specific url where in some function we used route with variable section also and *before_app_request( )* registers a function that runs before the view function, no matter what URL is requested. *redirect( )* fuction is used to redirect a user to another endpoint. *render_template( )* function is used to render html templates stored in templates folder. *Request* is a flask object used to retrieve the data at the server side using its attributes. *Flask* is class used to create class instance in which __ __name__ __ is passed as argument which represents the name of the application package. *Flask-Session* is an extension for Flask that support Server-side Session to the application. The Session is the time between the client logs in to the server and logs out of the server. *flash( )* method of the flask module passes the message to the next request which is an HTML template.

2. **<u>matplotlib.pyplot:</u>**
    **matplotlib.pyplot** is a collection of functions. Each pyplot function makes some change to a figure: e.g., creates a figure, creates a plotting area in a figure, plots some lines in a plotting area, decorates the plot with labels, etc. In matplotlib.

#### Landing

With the release of localhost to run the application as the application begins to work index function will direct you to the landing.html i.e., the home page of the application. The index page will direct user to any page of his/her choice. The url for index page is **'/'**.

#### Sign Up

From index page if user selects signup, the user is directed to the Sign Up page with url **'/sign_up'**. In the sign up route two methods are allowed i.e., GET and POST. When the request method to server is GET the html page for sign up is rendered to the user using render_template function. Where user have to fill the required fields and using submit button will send a POST request to the server after which the filled data will be extracted from the html form and a query is sent to the db to check if the user with same username already exists or not if not the provided userdata is stored in User table of database and user is redirected to the dashboard. We also check for other constraints such as password length, user existance, etc before new user registration

#### Login

From index page if user selects login, the user is directed to the Login page with url **'/login'**. In the sign up route two methods are allowed i.e., GET and POST. When the request method to server is GET the html page for login is rendered to the user using render_template function. Where user have to fill the required fields using submit button which will send a POST request to the server after which the filled data will be extracted from the html form and we will wirte query to check if user exist or not and if the userdata exists in database user is redirected to the dashboard, else will display error message using flash.

#### Mentor Dashboard

Once the user is logged in, based on the registration type ie. If the user has registered as a Mentor, They will be taken to the Mentor's Dashboard where they can see all the mentees of our database and can connect with them with the help of provided details.

#### Mentee Dashboard

Once the user is logged in, based on the registration type ie. If the user has registered as a Mentee, They will be taken to the Mentee's Dashboard where they can see all the Mentors of our database and can connect with them with the help of provided details. We also display Mentor's area of Expertise so that the Mentee can choose their reuqired Mentors.


#### Creators

- **Name : Param Chordiya**
- **Roll Number : 21f1003953**
- **Student Email : 21f1003953@student.onlinedegree.iitm.ac.in**
==================================================================
- **Name : Shaifali Vashistha**
- **Roll Number : 21f1003257**
- **Student Email : 21f1003257@student.onlinedegree.iitm.ac.in**

####  Thanks

We are thankful to IIT Madras for giving us this opportunity to develop such an interesting application under Software Engineering!
